# 周受资再谈TikTok：信任、AI和沙特计划

# 周受资再谈TikTok：信任、AI和沙特计划

![](https://inews.gtimg.com/om_bt/OzOUKO7OGfxWidxAOvWe3wIg0_UhZVO8dAHfy2GvLr_ckAA/1000)
_图片来源@视觉中国_

文｜窄播

北京时间3月6日17:15，Tik Tok CEO周受资在沙特阿拉伯举办的全球科技峰会LEAP上接受访谈，主题为《Fuelling Connections
and Collaborative Impact》。

他们谈到听证会、儿童安全、生成式人工智能和青少年网络成瘾等话题。

周受资的访谈开始前，主会场少见地坐满了人。一些参会者甚至站到摄影区域，以至于现场工作人员不得不试图出面维持秩序。

LEAP是由沙特通信技术部、沙特网络安全、编程和无人机联盟及Tahaluf公司共同主办，易达资本作为亚洲合作伙伴深度参与的全球科技从业者和爱好者的交流盛会。

3月4日到7日大会举办期间，来自180个国家的1800多家展商、800多名行业专家和1300多名投资人，以及17万科技爱好者齐聚沙特首都利雅得会展中心。

LEAP大会的火热，是中东市场尤其是正处于改革期间的沙特阿拉伯市场的机遇的写照。

据国际货币基金组织2023年统计，沙特、阿联酋和卡塔尔的年度人均GDP超过2.5万美元。这里具有高年轻人口比例和高互联网普及率，居民消费力与实际商品供给之间存在巨大缺口。

因此，这也是全球科技公司和中国出海企业正在野心勃勃想要进入的地区。Tik
Tok、SHEIN和Temu均在本地受到欢迎；有传言说，美团王兴已经数次前往中东考察，意图在中东开展外卖业务出海。

Tik
Tok在中东的爆发始于2021年，一批中国MCN前往中东掘金；同年，字节跳动投资了中东本土物流公司iMile。在内容基建和实体基建完成后，2023年下半年，Tik
Tok在沙特阿拉伯开启跨境电商全托管模式。

《窄播》在LEAP现场记录了周受资的访谈。以下为精简后的访谈纪录。

**《Fuelling Connections and Collaborative Impact》**

**主持人：Isabelle Kumar**

**受访者：Shou Chew（周受资）**

儿童安全

**Q: Can do no more than it is doing already to try and protect kids online
from the dangers they potentially face？**

**你们能不能做更多的事情来尝试和保护孩子们免受他们可能面临的危险？**

**A：** The way we look at this is, first of all, safety is a very core part of
experience. Despite creativity is a great joy, but we believe that people
can't do that unless if you sleep on the platform.

我们看待这个问题的方式是，首先，安全是体验的核心部分，尽管创造力带来了快感，但我们相信人们无法做到这一点，除非你睡在平台上。

What mean the approach that we've taken is the design safety into the product
itself. It make it inhospitable for bad people to try to do bad things on the
platform.

我们所采取的方法意味着产品本身的设计安全性。它使坏人在平台上做坏事变得不友好。

For example, if you are below 16 years old, we actually limit certain product
features for you. You cannot use a direct messaging. If you are below 18 years
old, you cannot use some features like live streaming.

例如，如果用户年龄低于16岁，我们会限制某些产品功能，比如私信功能；不到18岁的用户不可以使用直播功能。

We also put in a 60 minute time limit by default or users below the age of 18.
We believe we have been industry leading the building, its product safety by
design into the product itself.

我们还为18岁以下的用户设置了60分钟的默认时间限制。我们相信，我们一直在引领行业的建设，将产品的安全性设计融入到产品本身。

Now, with the reality is that the reason why we need to invest more than $2
billion in trust and safety this year is because even though the majority of
people come to enjoy the effort at a good time, there are bad people who try
to do bad things.

现在的现实是，我们今年之所以需要在信任和安全方面投入了20多亿美元，是因为尽管大多数人在好的时候来享受努力，但也有坏人试图做坏事。

And I think any company that takes that, the work is done, that is perfect,
that this is full proof. I think it's a dangerous place to be. What we need to
do is to continue to invest to see ahead of the curve to make sure that we
have the latest technology and we're moving. We were moving in not separate
the trend of the industry to make sure that we are catching on the behavior
before it happens on a platform. So it's an ongoing process.

我认为任何一家公司做到这一点，工作就已经完成了，就已经做得完美了，这是充分的证据。我觉得这是个危险的领域，我们需要做的是继续投入，走在潮流的前沿，以确保我们拥有最新的技术继续前进。我们并没有脱离行业的趋势，以此确保我们能在平台的不好的行为发生前就能捕捉到。所以这是一个持续的过程。

**Q：It's an ongoing process, but you feel that you think you can do no more
than you're doing already, or are there some avenues you still need to invest
it?**

**这是一个持续的过程，但你觉得除了你已经做的，不能再做更多了，还是你仍然需要一些投入？**

**A：** It will always be an ongoing investment to make sure that, for example,
with more tools or even create content, using AI more synthetically out there,
we need to do a series of things to make sure they stay on top of that.

这将永远是一项持续的投资，以确保有更多的工具，甚至更综合地使用人工智能创造内容，我们需要做一系列的事情来确保这些的领先地位：

First, our community guidelines prohibit certain types of what we call
synthetic media. That could be this representing information that that is
dangerous to the people who consume it. We need to make sure that our
guidelines be on top of that. We also need to make sure that we have invested
in the technology to be able to identify, catch and remove them as quickly as
possible.

首先，我们的社区指导方针禁止任何类型的合成媒体，这可能代表着对消费它的人来说是危险的信息，因而需要确保我们的指导方针在此之上。我们还需要确保我们在技术上进行了投资，以便能够尽快识别、捕捉和清除它们。

关于AI

**Q：We hear we're talking all about new technologies. Obviously, ai and
generative ai are really top of mind. What impact is that already having at
Tik Tok in terms of creative capabilities? Where do you see this going?**

**我们听说我们在谈论新技术。显然，在创新能力方面人工智能和生成式人工智能确实是最重要的，这对Tik Tok已经产生了什么影响?你认为未来会怎样?**

**A：** Our recommendation algorithm is based on machine learning. So a it's a
field that we have been looking at for quite some time. But the latest
developments in generally AI is very exciting. I think it sort of cuts across
the spectrum. There is new cases that you can imagine, for example, with this
capability to create the co creative videos. In the past, if you want to
create a video, you have to film it. You have to go, you have to do a lot of
editing. But I think in the future, there are more tools for you to translate
your creativity into a real video in a much simpler way.

我们的推荐算法是基于机器学习的。所以这是一个我们已经关注了很长时间的领域。但生成式人工智能的最新发展是非常令人兴奋的。我认为这是一种跨界。你可以想象一些新的案例，例如，用这种能力来创建联合创意视频。在过去，如果你想创建一个视频，你必须拍摄它、做大量的编辑工作。但我认为在未来，有更多的工具可以让你以更简单的方式将你的创意转化为真实的视频。

And that's exciting, for example, at the same time, we will bring about this
own set of challenges.

这是令人兴奋的，与此同时，我们将带来自己的一系列挑战。

So we need to make sure that we can handle that. And the good news is that
generative ai also brings about tools in technology. I for example, in content
operation, the fact that you can train the machines and a little bit more
contents when it comes to moderated content. This content moderation more
precise, because it's not just based on binary rules, yes or no. There's a but
it's based on the context. What is the context of this video? I think it's
going to be interesting. We are looking at how it will change the experience
that you have on tape on both from the content moderation side and also from
the creation side. I think this is a very exciting thing to happen. It's very
exciting.

所以我们需要确保我们能处理好这件事。好消息是，生成式人工智能也带来了技术工具。例如，在内容运营中，当涉及到内容审核时，你可以训练机器和更多的内容。这种内容审核更精确，因为它不仅仅是基于二元规则的「是或不是」，它是基于上下文的，比如这段视频的背景。我觉得这会很有趣。我们正在研究它将如何从内容审核方面和内容创作方面改变用户的体验。我认为这是一件非常令人兴奋的事情。

成瘾机制

**Q：And also though I think many people here have got kids, my kids love Tik
Tok so much already and I think even adults do this too, and i'm gonna just
want to be on Tik Tok even longer than I am already.**

**Now, I want to just approach quickly the question of digital addiction,
because digital addiction is not actually considers a mental health disorder,
but people are addicted to being online, to Tik Tok. Do you think it should be
recognized in details and mental health disorder?**

**我想在座的很多人都有孩子了，我的孩子非常喜欢Tik Tok，我想甚至成年人也是这样，我在Tik
Tok上呆的时间将会比现在还要长吗？现在，我想快速地讨论一下数字成瘾的问题，因为数字成瘾实际上并不被认为是一种精神健康障碍，但人们目前沉迷网络，沉迷Tik
Tok。你认为这种现象应该在细节上和心理健康障碍区分开来吗?**

**A：** I disagree with the characterization of addiction because I think our
users have a lot of choices. We use this and you can use on that. They have
any other apps on the market out. There's a whole series of digital activities
that's gaining. There's a whole bunch of choices that people have. Having said
that I do think it's really important for people to have developed their own
healthy relationships with advisers, especially if you're a teenager and I
think it's really important that means had the discussion a teenager teenagers
level, what is the right policy we have for the teens themselves。

我不同意对上瘾的描述，因为我认为我们的用户有很多选择。他们在市场上有许多其他应用程序可选，一系列的数字活动也正在增加。话虽如此，我确实认为人们与顾问建立健康的关系是非常重要的，特别是青少年，我认为这是非常重要的，这意味着要有青少年水平的讨论，我们对青少年有什么正确的政策。

Our approach to this is we want to provide new tools to be able to handle the
relationship and devices. But if you are little 18, then we take stronger
steps. Like, for example, if you're a little bit keen, we set the default
screen has been to 60 minutes, and when it is 60, can that you can have a
break and decide for yourself in what is the right model usage for you. We
also give parents tools if you go for parents in the room, if you go to
settings the three bars, good for family parent, you can actually pair your
device with a teenagers device, which allows you to then control the amount of
time if your teenager should use it.

我们的方法是，提供新的工具来处理与设备的关系。但如果用户小于18岁，那么我们会采取更有力的措施。我们将默认屏幕设置为60分钟，当使用时间到了60分钟时可以休息一下，用户自己决定适合自己的类型。我们还为父母提供了工具，在父母的房间里，如果去设置，可以将父母的设备与孩子设备配对来控制青少年使用它的时间。

Regardless of whether you're using an apple device or an android device, I
think those devices have the most screen time, living tools building as well,
which I encourage people to learn to use.

无论用户使用的是苹果设备还是安卓设备，我认为这些设备都有最多的屏幕时间，也有生活工具，我鼓励人们学习使用这些工具。

And even if you are not little 18, what we do is, if you spend see it more
than a couple of hours using Tik Tok enroll, we actually pro actively show you
videos. We encourage you to you sleep at night, we approach you. Prepare. This
is the daytime where we should do something else. You can a take a break from
this. Because I think ultimately this is all about this is not about trying to
optimize as much time as possible. We know that it's not like that. What we
want is our users have a very healthy relationship that because that's the
only way you're gonna have a long term sustainable retention. The only way
you're gonna use something for a long time, meaning for years and years to
come is when you feel you have a very healthy relationship with it, everything
in moderation.

即使用户大于18岁，我们所做的是，如果你花几个小时以上的时间使用Tik
Tok，我们会主动向你展示视频，如果是在晚上，我们会鼓励你尽早休息，如果是白天，我们会鼓励你做别的事情休息一下。因为我认为最终这一切都不是关于占据用户尽可能多的时间，我们想要的是我们的用户有一个非常健康的关系，因为这是你长期可持续保留的唯一途径。唯一能让你长期使用某样东西的方法，也就是年复一年地使用它，就是当你觉得你和它的关系非常健康的时候，一切都要适度。

在沙特的规划

**Q：Yeah, that's very interesting because it also kind of works out for so
many things in a large sense that the relationship has to stay healthy. And I
thought you big, a very exciting relationship here in the region, a lot more
new businesses online.**

**是的，这很有趣，因为从很大程度上来说，这也适用于很多事情，关系必须保持健康。我认为你们与这个地区的关系非常令人兴奋，有很多新的在线业务。**

**A：** This is my second times here in this wonderful country in 2 months to
answer something.

And yesterday we made a couple of announcements here, first we are now
supporting up to 175,000 businesses within the country, which we are very
proud of.

昨天我们宣布了几件事，首先，我们现在支持当地多达175,000家企业，我们对此感到非常自豪。

And then there's some creators today. The creators we've been talking about
food, people, talking about technology trends, and introduce a whole bunch of
stuff to me.

今天也有一些创作者在场，我们谈论食物，谈论人，谈论技术趋势，他们向我介绍了一大堆东西。

At the same time, we feel the responsibility. We know that people use the
platform for a variety of things. I had a creator just now who teaches English
on the platform. I met someone who is a physician who works in health
ministries to talk about health issues in Tik Tok, it's very well received.

We also want to invest in the next generation, because this is a country where
its very vibrant, its very young, its very, very tight set. Thats why we love
to launch our new product features here first. And for the region, because it
is just so many early allowance of other features.

同时，我们也感到了责任。我们知道人们使用平台来做各种各样的东西。有位创作者刚刚在我们的平台上教英语，我也见过一名在卫生部工作的医生在Tik
Tok谈论健康议题，这是非常易被接受的。有人想一想，它很受欢迎。

我们还想投资下一代，因为这是一个充满活力、非常年轻的国家。这就是为什么我们喜欢首先在这里发布我们的新产品和新功能。对于这个地区来说，新功能可以获得早期的许可。

We're working with an NGO. This is as part of the vision, 2030 plans. We were
gonna work with them to create videos, to ultimately empower of the 2 million
young people. These are topics of entrepreneurship and probability, great
things to try and support them. So it's very exciting.

我们正在和一个非政府组织合作。这是愿景2030计划的一部分。我们将与他们合作制作视频，最终为200万年轻人赋权。这些都是关于创业精神和就业的话题，是尝试支持当地的好事。所以这非常令人兴奋。

And over the next period of time, we expected to invest more to become even
more local in this vertical country.

在接下来的一段时间里，我们希望投资更多，（让企业或服务）在这个垂直发展的国家变得更加本地化。

Tik Tok带来了什么

**Q：I want to know what is the best thing, what is the one thing you love? The
most about Tik Tok?**

**我想知道你最喜欢Tik Tok的哪个部分？**

**A：** All the discoverability is definitely interesting. I've learned so
much. bad jokes, a little bit of golf and then the golfing tips. They're very
exciting. This is very interesting at lunch. And its all about sort of
learning new things, the discoverability and it's different for everyone.

所有的发现绝对是有趣的。我学到了很多。冷笑话，高尔夫技巧，非常令人兴奋。学习新事物，发现新事物，每个人都不一样。

My family uses it, like my wife uses it, like friends who use it. I have
colleagues to use it. And when I asked him, what does Tik Tok bring? For you,
it's only something different cooking for a month, for some people, it could
be sort of more educational stuff. But the one consistent thing is that it
brings them an immense amount of choice, which is the thing that we have been
striving to provide. So that gives me a lot of pride in the work of it.

我的家人用它，我的妻子用它，我的朋友也用它，我的同事使用它。当我问他，Tik
Tok能带来什么?对你来说，可能只是一个月的不同烹饪，对有些人来说，可能是更有教育意义的东西。但始终如一的一点是，它带来了大量的选择，这也是我们一直在努力提供的。所以这让我对它感到非常自豪。

